# Weather3

## Intro
Climate change is a much discussed topic these days, with frequent warnings of disasterous future outcomes. Generally the warnings are based on reports that are generated by unknown people of unknown credentials, and the rebuttals to these reports are written by unknown "experts" with unknown credentials.

This project is an attempt to provide accessible historical data without conclusions: you can reach your own conclusions. To make the historical temperature data accessible, this project will generate charts for major US cities using publicly available daily high and low temperatures records from as far back as 1900 or as close to that date as was possible. 

## Charts
Three types of charts will be generated for each year for each city:
-  Monthly average temperatures
-  Fortnightly (two weeks) average temperatures
-  Weekly average temperatures

So for a city that has 120 years of data available, 360 charts will be generated. If 30 US cities are studied, there will be approximately 10,000 charts generated. Which is a mind-numbingly large quantity.

## Goals
So the true goal of this project is to make these charts, these average temperatures by week, fortnight, and month, easy to understand across the span of time covered in this project. To make these charts manageable, they will be comparable; for example, you will be able to pick several specific years to compare and see their differences on screen. Or perhaps by decade differences or "key dates" will be displayed for comparison.

## Roadmap
-  Collect data from cities across the US, including Alaska. Originally just the largest cities were selected but this produced a bias towards coastal cities so cities like Billings, Montana and Nashville, Tennessee were added. This was completed several years ago so it will be refreshed.
-  Move the data into a database for analysis.
-  Generate weekly, fortnightly, and monthly average temp tables for every city for every year.
-  Generate charts displaying the average temps for these tables. Note that these tables and charts will all be pre-generated because there is no need to dynamically generate the tables or charts since the historical data won't change.
-  Use the generated charts as frames in a video and then display the video at perhaps 3-10 frames per second to watch for changes and trends.

## Concerns
Some people voice concerns about the accuracy of historical data. For example, how good were the thermometers 120 years ago. Turns out, since the mercury thermometer was invented in the 1600s, the temperatures are generally accurate within a degree or so. Collection errors are greater than equipment differences.

Other people are skeptical of how trustworthy the publicly available data is. While it is potentially possible to manipulate the daily temperature data, the sheer magnitude of the task of intentionally corrupting the data enough to achieve a specific outcome without making the edits obvious make this unlikely. Consider that high and low temperatures for every day in a single year for a single city produces 720+ data points and approximately 85,000 for 120 years. And there are thousands of sets of temperature data for cities, easily representing a half billion data points that all have to be consistently manipulated. Potentially one city could be manipulated but hundreds of cities across thousand of data sets and achieve consistent results. . . that's highly unlikely in the past. A few years in the future, with megabucks available for training AI systems on weather data, it is potentially possible to corrupt the data, but one has to wonder who would be willing to spend that much money to achieve what tangible result? And they'd have to be able to hack their way into the computer systems to corrupt the data. This concern is potentially valid going forward but much harder considering the past.
